---
title: RSE South West (23rd June) discussion
---

[Discussion board from the meeting (read-only)](https://uob.padlet.org/racheltunnicliffe1/rse-south-west-discussion-esqgnrwbo8d39r4i)

# Discussion summary

## Would you like RSE South West to be a distinct group and what would you like to see from this group?

* In-person > online for a regional group​

	* Yes, there was strong support for RSE South West to be distinct group and focus on organising in person meetings.
	
	* The aim (also tieing with discussions at the previous meeting) was to have four meet up points a year with one of these being the annual conference in September. This can focus around the University of Exeter, University of Bristol and the MetOffice and members from the Plymouth Marine Laboratory (PML) would also like to host future events (depending on funding).

	* The next meeting would aim to be in **Nov/Dec 2025** and could potentially be hosted by the ***University of Exeter (to be confirmed)***.
	
	* The main costs for these events are invited speaker travel and catering. For catering, there was a suggestion that a small contribution could be asked for to cover this and this could be limited to tea/coffee rather than also including lunch (though lunch was highlighted as an important networking opportunity as well).

* Local identity

	* We would like to continue to extend invites to the University of Bath and reach out to the UK Hydrographic Office in Taunton and members of the GW4 alliance (https://gw4.ac.uk/).

* Longevity of the group​

	* For longevity, there was a suggestion to set up a cross-institute commitee which could advise on events. This would require further discussion.


## What works well about how you are organised as RSEs? / Is there anything which could be improved about how you are organised as RSEs?

* Mixture of the models that work (central / embedded)​

* Growing pains​

* Removing isolation & duplication / ensuring consistency​

* Funding models​

* Context switching​

* Tech stack to support work​


## What software best practices do you find most useful? What would you put in an RSE handbook?

* Handbook – how to make it RSE-specific?​

	* See also: The Turing Way, Duck Book​

* Potential topics

	* Agreeing requirements – of researcher and of users​

	* How to write effective documentation​

	* Advice on Time & project management​

	* Working with different types of PIs

* How to easily create material

	* Could use speed blogging to create a handbook - set up workshops to split into groups and write up as blogs after the meeting.

	* Could focus on future talks being about best practices and save these recordings to start to build up a record of this


## Any other topics to discuss?

* Meet at RSECon?​

	* There is a meeting event (possibly a regional RSE groups "Birds of a Feather" (BoF) session) at RSECon25 which we should get involved in.

* Use of AI in coding​

	* No time to discuss but could be a good topic for the next meeting
